README.md, before:

# DDTIC

This repository contains a short tutorial on how to completely disable
Discord changing it's icon in tray on Linux machine.

## Why

On my system it actually does not work at all, I've never seen
the microphone icon or anything else **and** something to do with this
eventually completely freezes the UI of Discord when I am calling for
longer time (1+ hours).

This is on `Manjaro Linux with AwesomeWM | 16GB | i7-7700HQ | Nvidia 1060M`.

## How To Disable Tray Icon Change And Fix Discord Freezing During Longer Calls

_Please first read the Disclaimer at the end before doing anything._

Also if you are stuck, or don't understand what I mean in any step, stop now
and create an issue here and I will try to help.

There will be one program needed for this called `asar`
you should be able to find it in your package manager, if not you will have to
install it from here https://github.com/electron/asar.

- Completely stop discord if it's running
- Navigate to `~/.config/discord/0.0.X` where X is your current
  discord version, you are looking for highest number here
- In that directory navigate to `modules/discord_desktop_core`.

  The current path should then look like this:
  `~/.config/discord/0.0.X/modules/discord_desktop_core`
- In this directory there should be a few files, mainly `core.asar` and `index.js`
- Run `asar extract core.asar core/`, this will unpack the `core.asar`
  into directory named `core`
- Now comes the hardest part, editing the code:

  - Open this file `core/app/systemTray.js` with your favourite editor
  - Either search for line starting with `function setTrayIcon(icon)` or jump to line 164.

    Keep in mind that different Discord versions can and will have different stuff
    on exact line numbers, this was developed with `0.0.16` in mind, if you have different
    version then you should pay extra attention where you are pasting the next code.

  - Insert this snippet:

    ```js
    if (icon == "DEFAULT") {
      return;
    }
    ```

    after the the line 164
    **or** if you were searching for function, paste it **under** this piece of code
    (within the function `setTrayIcon`):

    ```js
    if (icon == null) {
      hide();
      return;
    } else {
      show();
    } // Keep mute/deafen menu items in sync with client, based on icon states

    // >HERE COMES THE IF< (replace this whole line, do not keep the double slash at the start)
    ```

  - For verification, the code after this looks like this:

    ```js
    // ...
    function setTrayIcon(icon) {
      // Keep track of last set icon
      currentIcon = trayIcons[icon]; // If icon is null, hide the tray icon.  Otherwise show
      // These calls also check for tray existence, so minimal cost.

      if (icon == null) {
        hide();
        return;
      } else {
        show();
      } // Keep mute/deafen menu items in sync with client, based on icon states

      if (icon == "DEFAULT") {
        return;
      }

      const muteIndex = contextMenu.indexOf(menuItems[MenuItems.MUTE]);
    // ...
    ```

- One last thing remining, we need to switch a track and point Discord to the new unpacked
  folder instead of the asar file.
  In `index.js`, you have to change the `require('./core.asar')` to `require('./core')`,
  like this:

  ```js
  module.exports = require("./core");
  // module.exports = require('./core.asar');
  ```

- That's it. You will probably have to do this for every new version of Discord.
  It might event break stuff completely, absolutely no guarantees on my side.

# Disclaimer

Obviously you should never paste a random code some rando on the web told you to paste somewhere.
Not into discord, not anywhere. So, is this safe? It works on my machine :tm: :shrug:.

Though if something indeed failed just make an issue here and I will try to help,
either way I am not taking any responsibility for any damage that might come out of this,
it's as they say, for educational purposes so by following this how-to you acknowledge that
you know what you are doing.

Commit message:

Added info on how to revert

README.md, after:

# DDTIC

This repository contains a short tutorial on how to completely disable
Discord changing it's icon in tray on Linux machine.

## Why

On my system it actually does not work at all, I've never seen
the microphone icon or anything else **and** something to do with this
eventually completely freezes the UI of Discord when I am calling for
longer time (1+ hours).

This is on `Manjaro Linux with AwesomeWM | 16GB | i7-7700HQ | Nvidia 1060M`.

## How To Disable Tray Icon Change And Fix Discord Freezing During Longer Calls

_Please first read the Disclaimer at the end before doing anything._

Also if you are stuck, or don't understand what I mean in any step, stop now
and create an issue here and I will try to help.

There will be one program needed for this called `asar`
you should be able to find it in your package manager, if not you will have to
install it from here https://github.com/electron/asar.

- Completely stop discord if it's running
- Navigate to `~/.config/discord/0.0.X` where X is your current
  discord version, you are looking for highest number here
- In that directory navigate to `modules/discord_desktop_core`.

  The current path should then look like this:
  `~/.config/discord/0.0.X/modules/discord_desktop_core`

- In this directory there should be a few files, mainly `core.asar` and `index.js`
- Run `asar extract core.asar core/`, this will unpack the `core.asar`
  into directory named `core`
- Now comes the hardest part, editing the code:

  - Open this file `core/app/systemTray.js` with your favourite editor
  - Either search for line starting with `function setTrayIcon(icon)` or jump to line 164.

    Keep in mind that different Discord versions can and will have different stuff
    on exact line numbers, this was developed with `0.0.16` in mind, if you have different
    version then you should pay extra attention where you are pasting the next code.

  - Insert this snippet:

    ```js
    if (icon == "DEFAULT") {
      return;
    }
    ```

    after the the line 164
    **or** if you were searching for function, paste it **under** this piece of code
    (within the function `setTrayIcon`):

    ```js
    if (icon == null) {
      hide();
      return;
    } else {
      show();
    } // Keep mute/deafen menu items in sync with client, based on icon states

    // >HERE COMES THE IF< (replace this whole line, do not keep the double slash at the start)
    ```

  - For verification, the code after this looks like this:

    ```js
    // ...
    function setTrayIcon(icon) {
      // Keep track of last set icon
      currentIcon = trayIcons[icon]; // If icon is null, hide the tray icon.  Otherwise show
      // These calls also check for tray existence, so minimal cost.

      if (icon == null) {
        hide();
        return;
      } else {
        show();
      } // Keep mute/deafen menu items in sync with client, based on icon states

      if (icon == "DEFAULT") {
        return;
      }

      const muteIndex = contextMenu.indexOf(menuItems[MenuItems.MUTE]);
    // ...
    ```

- One last thing remining, we need to switch a track and point Discord to the new unpacked
  folder instead of the asar file.
  In `index.js`, you have to change the `require('./core.asar')` to `require('./core')`,
  like this:

  ```js
  module.exports = require("./core");
  // module.exports = require('./core.asar');
  ```

- That's it. You will probably have to do this for every new version of Discord.
  It might event break stuff completely, absolutely no guarantees on my side.

- If you can't start Discord after this and you didn't backup stuff ;) then
  look at the Revert under here

# Revert
Just delete the `0.0.X` directory and Discord will pull it in again (thru self-updater)

# Disclaimer

Obviously you should never paste a random code some rando on the web told you to paste somewhere.
Not into discord, not anywhere. So, is this safe? It works on my machine :tm: :shrug:.

Though if something indeed failed just make an issue here and I will try to help,
either way I am not taking any responsibility for any damage that might come out of this,
it's as they say, for educational purposes so by following this how-to you acknowledge that
you know what you are doing.
